COVID-19 started in the end of 2019 year change world in many way. For me, things also effect my life in multiply ways. 

The mask wearing is most obivous thing. Long before COVID-19 happens, my city xi'an suffice a lot in air pollute. In most 2016, everyday in summer, autumn and even worst winter covered in dust. My noise discomfort. Wearing a KN95 mask is a must-to-have. One US colleague came to Xi'an for bussiness reason, taying only one day, then fly back to US since the weather here is causing his asthma. Since then, people in north China, including me, cultivated a habit for stocking up mask for bad air. It may explain why Chinese is more acceptable for mask wear during COVID-19. 

Worst air condition also cause cold and other the upper respiratory tract illness. I failed into cold often. Then after meeting doctor, i received some Chinese medicine. It work. So early in the 2019 before COVID-19, I brought stock from that medicine company. Right after my money poured into stock, the China-US trade war start. Stock prize start to fail. I lost money in account. But I thought I should support good company as patriotism behaviour. So even losting money, i took more stock in market. In the last day of 2019, the breaking new of wuhan's found infected patients. The rumor start in news on internet. The stock start to rise. My year long investment made up the deficits. Two weeks later i sold that with +10% income of total money before COVID-19 got confirmed. A bit lucky and not, its price later double in the middle of 2020. It surprised me also. Chinese goverment even mail it to studying aboard students, in case them may feel sick. It works for some kind cold. But i have doubt whether it works for COVID-19. People in stock market was bet on it at least. What i learned from that is to be reasonable in investment is a good habit. Luck can fly away anytime. But preparing for the harvest is the most important.

Everyday life wheeled sharply. I was told by goverment spring holiday extend. And I donot know when holiday will end at that time. My parents feel a bit down not able to go downstair in holiday. The block started. The countryside is block the way to rural place. I ride bike to my company a few day later. Found i am the only one in my team which return company. Stay home order is issued by goverment. I feel a bit happy not to ride 17 km to company. Tracking people activty by wechat app started. It made me feel more safe in super market i went. Everyone start to adapt zoom in company. To be frank, work from home is quite nice. More quietness and easy to get in zoom. Project is not so delay as expect, and also not so smoothy.

Then the two months passed, COVID-19 in china got curbed. Mask wearing start get uncomfortable in warmer weather. My face always moist which make my face oily. That disease found it place in aboard. Bussiness plan of a lot company get messed. Bank i work for start not to pay divdend for stock by requirement from bank association. Its stock failed. The project call to end immediately in the july. I interchange to a job i am not familiar with. Training and training, conference by conference.

At the start of September, my back feel pain. It got worst after a bad massage from my father. I can not stand, then crawl to bath myself. After a month, I could sit no longer than half an hour. I guess work from home made me sit for too long. Lack of excise also is a cause. The basketball ground in school is not allow me to access because blocking.

My new team leader unhappy with my performment. i got a 17 minutes long zoom rebuke. Interchange to another group by new boss. Then 4 weeks later got another fail in new team. Oh, this hard to write down even think. Depression, continue learning by read book slowly progress. Got a little positive feedback. happy.

Thing will be better.

