---
title: "Oh Java"
permalink: blog/oh-java.html
layout: post
fuzzydate: Jan 2021
---

I hava a long mixed feeling for java. When i was a college student, some dude from classmate say here is  a new rockstar language called java. It can write a web applet, without deconstruction function. Some smart people said if you learn java, all the big IT company was going to recuit you after graduate. Like all thing with an input, all java tutor fee must be frist payed. It almost 2 thousand CNY for 3 or 4 week, include 10 hours teachor lecutured in class and about a few hours in computer pratice. After you finished that, you got a chance to participe a exam to get a certificated java programmer title.

That title is a key for successful programming career. Without a second hesitation, I joined. Once finishing some kind roadshow to my parents, I spent months family income to get a certificated book. That is a 800 page brike-like book, full of API example with little though why it design. The lecture is very dull. 

Eventully, I failed at that full of very similar choice questions exam. Once a while, i had doubt about my future programming life. 

2 year later... After graduate, I started my programming as a C programming. I join a taiwanese company. They do a lot C programming in window. They devote a lot effect and time to educate young engineer with a lot college computer quiz. Some about algorithm, Some about API.

Time fly. I buried all java world in pasted memory. About 7 year ago, i learn a lot javascript to dirty my hand in browser side thing. At that time, rich interacted app in browser just started. Company was perpare a upgrade their UI. Google map, apple icloud was at their peak. But I was puzzled by a search client. They reuquire guest can input key word to prompt related topic article. I reunited java by apache lucene. Lucene is beautiful api for indexing document. I totally shock by java effective. Only about 100 line code, my problem is settled. Why?

Maybe newton's saying "standing on a gaint's shoulder" can answer. Java have a lot library to solve classified problem. From that time, my ignorance for java is tattered.

last year as job change, i have a few time to learn java. On java 8 was one book i read. I update my java knowledge from 1.2 to 8. The book is about 1800 pages. I finish it in 3 months. Author complain java a lot, because java is full of history related inconvenience. It still require a huge input (even more, becasuse of new added feature to cater programing fashion nowadays) to master it. Today programming is more and more pure function and parallel. Java's "everything is object“ make it clumsy comparing haskell or erlanged sparked language. I guess which is why more younger lad start  to pursue go or JVM based language, ex. scala. It always simple to learn with less history.

Why i still learning JAVA? why simply start with go? The answer is bank still heavily rely on java tech. They use J2EE for logon and audit in load-balanced seperated server. Remeber sprint cloud is just start in 5 years. SOAP API for data interchange to cobol based server root in decades ago. Java is everything in backend except cobol. Java impotance will decline after more mule like dedecated language emerged. But not now.

Another thing to notice is typescript have made javascript more like java. In think and pratice, they are twins, as frontend project became large, may include hundred of files. With VS code, a young lad could not tell which is which at a glance.

Java have a lot experience in server world. Much more fully profiled book are on java. That is a treasure to solve problem related.

